[ Silence ]
>> George Noory:
[Background Music]
And I think many people
today don't know what
to believe anymore.
>> We need to keep on help
uncover what really happened.
>> I felt like something
was watching me.
>> We weren't given
all the information.
We weren't told the
entire story.
[ Music ]
And welcome to Beyond Belief.
You know, since the beginning of
time, mankind has been obsessed
with trying to communicate
with the dead.
But how do they do that?
Well, there is one
such item out there
and it's called the Ouija Board.
Karen Dahlman, noted author,
will tell you about some
of her works in moment
is a Ouija board-ologist.
What the heck is that, Karen?
>> Karen Dahlman: Ouijaologist
is somebody who works
at the boards and
understands how to use to it.
>> George Noory: And
how do you use it?
>> Karen Dahlman: Well, I used
the board for only one purpose
and the purpose is for spiritual
development and growth.
So I make sure that always used
under those kind of auspices.
>> George Noory: Well, you
wrote "The Spirit of Creativity"
and "The Spirits of
Ouija," two books.
They are both different.
One deals more with the
inner spirituality of people,
the other one deals
with the Ouija board.
How can somebody
be so different?
>> Karen Dahlman: Well, that's
a good way of putting it.
Yet, they are every similar.
When I was writing
the first book,
"The Spirit of Creativity,"
I actually was consulting
with the Ouija board,
my spirit friends
on some topics to write about.
So this book came with the
topics that I was working
on with Ouija board,
meaning personal development,
learning to access creativity,
learning to evolve myself,
become better person.
So when I wrote "The
Spirits of Ouija" for decades
of communication, that's
really what was going
on behind the scenes
while I wrote this book.
So really what's been going on
behind the scenes for 40 years
when I wrote this book and
beyond because it talks
about how to go more
internally with yourself,
that spirits actually,
our guides are here
to help us become more
powerful in our self,
not to go outside our self.
Although Ouija board seems like
a tool for outside ourselves,
it's really a tool to
help you go back within
and learn great things about
your talents, who you are,
capabilities, abilities,
and those kinds of things.
They go hand in hand.
>> GN: Now the board,
the board is really
controversial because--
>> KD: Oh, yeah.
>> GN: -- because there are some
people out that swear by it.
There are other people
who swear at it basically.
They want nothing
to do with that.
How old is the Ouija board?
How did it first start?
Who developed it?
>> KD: Well, those are
some good questions
because the Ouija board,
as we know it, the Ouija,
it's actually pronounced
Ouija, not Ouiji, is from 1891
and in 1890, they
filed patent on it.
And 1891 is when the
patent was granted
by the United States
Patent Office.
And it started being made.
Now, there were spirit
boards and maybe other kinds
of devices they use, the
alphabet cards they use is one
or a board that had
letters on or numbers.
And people would point to it
or use other kinds of devices.
And that's about mid-1800s
when spiritualist movement came
about in the United States.
People are wanting
a way to communicate
with their loved ones
that were beyond.
So when this board came out,
this item which is very unique
because it took a planchette
which is this item right here
which they usually used with
their hand on it and a pencil,
it was an aperture for a pencil,
and had two caster wheels,
and they roll around
and they would write.
They'd write these phenomenal
messages from the beyond.
And what happened was they
took this, retrofitted it,
if you will, took off the pencil
and ended up with three legs.
They could be wooden or
they could be casters.
And they put it, they
call it the little table
and they put it on
top the board.
And this here is a
1902 board circa, 1902.
>> GN: Oh, this is old.
I'm not sure I want to hold it.
>> KD: You touched it.
>> GN: I don't want to hold it.
>> GN: Bad luck.
>> KD: So that-- no, goodness,
this is really good
luck actually.
So this would go on
top of it like this.
And it will roll around so
they got rid of the pencil.
The writing which was
awfully, most of the time,
became really eligible
and scribbly when speaking
of more concise, exact
way, quick way of being
in contact with the beyond.
>> GN: Did they think that
the people that were holding
down the planchette were
just playing a game,
just playing around,
maybe making it up?
>> KD: I'm sure there was
a lot back in then too.
I mean, this is a tool
that's been around, you know,
again since about 1890s
and it was really popular
in the early 1900s.
In fact, every home had one.
It was a parlor game,
if you will.
And so--
>> GN: Before radio,
before television.
>> KD: Yeah.
You sit around the
Ouija, I guess,
instead-- Ouija instead, right?
So it was used as a tool
to communicate but yet,
it was also a parlor
game as well.
There was no negativity
connotation
or association with it.
So it was something that
every household almost had.
It was like Kleenex.
You know, they give
it household name.
I think that's why we
call all talking boards
or spirit boards Ouija,
Ouija boards, because it's
like Kleenex, you know,
it's the same thing.
>> GN: I wonder if [inaudible]
would come over to your house
and everybody would play with
Ouija board and after she left,
if something would
happen to her.
Maybe her horse and
carriage went crazy and--
>> KD: Well, people like to
associate stories like that,
which I think it gives it more
of a mystic and mysteriousness
about it and it makes it
exciting and fun and tantalizing
and I think that's
kind of drive.
Ouija is scary but
yet is mysterious
and there might be some
interesting information.
Sure, people a lot of--
I've heard over the years
people had made associations.
And I would say yes,
things can happen.
I'm not going to say they can't,
but things can happen
with anything.
It's not outside myself, it's
not this that makes it happen.
It's the people themselves,
it's their own energy.
It's their own life.
It's the energy around
them, it's not this.
I could draw letters on
this table right here,
put my planchette on it,
and would probably move.
And that's not the
board, it's not the table.
It would be me behind it.
>> GN: How did you
get involved in this?
>> KD: Well, it was a
gift from Santa Claus.
>> GN: Nice Santa Claus.
>> KD: Isn't that a great gift?
>> GN: Bad Santa.
>> KD: You know, good Santa.
It was what I wanted
and I got it
and I've been doing
it ever since.
So what happen was, I was
involved with some friends
down the street, two
girls that were sisters.
And I went to their house and
they had one of these boards.
I had never seen one before,
didn't know much about it.
>> GN: Did you fall
in love with it?
>> KD: I will tell you I
did because immediately,
we start talking
to a dead sister.
I didn't know they
had a dead sister.
There's a twin of
one of the girls.
And I thought, "Wait a
second," I was not pushing it
but I thought they
must be pushing it.
I know I'm not.
They swore they weren't.
And then we started to
find out other things
and I thought this is just
too strange and here I am,
eight years old, thinking
this weird, I was so excited.
I immediately ran home
to tell my parents
about this marvelous tool.
>> GN: You had to have one.
>> KD: I have to have one.
So for about-- before I got one
for several months,
I was using theirs.
>> GN: And when you started
with it, did you do it
by yourself for a while?
And did it work?
>> KD: I never-- no, I
never did it by myself.
I always believe that you
shouldn't do that by yourself
because I feel like you are
getting yourself into energy.
And you really need
somebody to be there with you
if you're going to start to
work with energy on this level.
Meaning you're moving in and
beyond our reality and going
into another realm that we
may not know too much how
to traverse it, and you got to
know how to navigate this space.
So I say don't, I never did.
I never did and I don't
recommend anybody starting
out with Ouija board to
do it on their own either.
>> GN: How do you
recommend people use it?
Not that we're endorsing it.
>> KD: Well, are we
going to use it maybe?
I could show you.
>> GN: You can.
>> KD: I wouldn't do by myself.
How you use it is
you want have a--
you want to approach the board
with definitely a
sense of revere.
You want to approach it as
if it's sacred in the space
of "I'm going to use this
tool," a tool only it's a tool,
"to open up and talk
to the other side."
So you want to come to it not
frivolously, not jovially,
but has seriousness about
it and openness to it
and allow the spirits to talk.
It requires a lot of energy
on their end to be able
to match the frequency and the
vibration of our energy to come
through and even communicate.
So therefore, if you have it on
an open, honest, authentic level
and you welcomed to come
to that kind of level,
the same quality level you're
putting out, then it's going
to be easier for
them to talk to you.
So I recommend you do it that
way with a prayer to start,
always with a prayer to start.
>> GN: A prayer?
>> KD: Yeah.
>> GN: What kind of a prayer?
>> KD: A prayer where you
honor yourself doing this,
opening yourself up and
ask for the God's source
of the white light, you
know, whatever works for you
in terms of your protection.
You bring in protection.
I used to call the God's
source of the white light.
And I bring that in, I make
sure it's protecting myself
and surrounding me, because
I'm going into another realm,
it's like a shaman journey.
I'm journeying into the
other realm and allowing them
to comeback with me too.
And so I want to be really
set the stage for that,
has seriousness, has
sacredness to it.
And then welcome
that sacredness back.
>> GN: When you use it, are you
conjuring up a certain spirit?
Like somebody you knew?
Or do you just open it up and
let anything come through?
>> KD: Well, I don't
really like the word conjure
and I'll tell why I don't
like to use that word.
'Cause it sounds like
I'm practicing some kind
of magic or cult practice.
And that's not what I'm doing
here and I don't really want
to say I even involved, I
don't even know how to do that.
So I don't use the word conjure.
I would say I am invoking, I
know it sounds kind of somatics.
But what I'm doing is I'm asking
permission for another energy
to come through and speak to me.
But I do have energies I talk
to and they're all related to me
in some level in terms
of a guardian or a guide.
Most of them are
discarnate spirits.
That means they've never
been born in physical form.
And I have angels
I talk to as well.
Those I've met over the
years, and I only met them
because I set the stage for the
seriousness and the white light
so that's all that
can come through.
Everything that comes
through this portal,
if you want to call the portal
or doing this type of work,
it's really important that you
have that energy, and you hold
that space for that energy,
the same to come
through that you are.
So I'm really serious
about that so what I meet
and who I meet are
those types of energies.
>> GN: I see.
>> KD: Well, [inaudible]
but I will speak to people
who are dead or passed on
because somebody who has come
to the session that I'm
hosting has some unsolved,
unfinished business and they
need closure so I'm willing to
and I want to help people
have closure on that.
>> GN: Well, who's the one that
helps bring that spirit in?
You or that individual
who has come to you?
>> KD: Both, I mean, this energy
coming here and their desire,
their openness to
speak to that energy,
as well as myself being open and
desiring and knowing how to open
that portal, that
channel to use it,
as well as the entity
on the other side.
Now, just because
somebody wants to speak
to let's say a dead
loved one doesn't mean
that loved one will
come through.
They may not be able
to at that moment.
They may still be on the other
side healing from their death.
There may be some work
they're working on.
I mean, life goes
on the other side.
And there-- they have
work to do there.
But they'll come through if
they're able to, and if not,
typically, a guardian
of that person
or another message
barrier will come through.
And I have helpers, bouncers,
gatekeepers if you will,
on the other side who help bring
through the energies that need
to come through and speak.
>> GN: What if they've already
reincarnated, if you believe
in reincarnation,
does that mean then
that you cannot contact them?
>> KD: Yes.
>> GN: Because that soul
has already comeback,
it's in another physical body.
>> KD: That's correct.
Now-- but let's get
complicated here, OK?
Let's make this more complex.
Yes, that's true.
I'll say yes to that question.
Yet I do want to say
that you can talk
to people's higher selves, OK?
So I spent just three and a half
years and that's in my new book
where it talked about-- I'm
talking to higher selves.
This-- it's such a
poignant conversation
to have 'cause now you're
talking to yourself,
that yourself that's the bigger
part of you, the greater self
of yourself that's
connected to your soul,
that's connected
back to the source.
So you're talking to this part
of you that has a great knowing.
So when somebody is
reincarnated on the other side,
that's not to say you can't
talk to the higher self
of that soul that's
reincarnated.
>> GN: OK, so there's
a possibility?
>> KD: So it gets
a little trick--
there's a possibility, yes.
>> GN: Have you ever
come across negativity,
an evil entity with
the Ouija board?
>> KD: That's-- everybody's
number one question is that.
And I really think so.
I'm going to say yes and no.
First, I want to
back up and talk
about evil just a
moment if I may.
>> GN: Do you believe in evil?
>> KD: I don't, I believe in
evil behavior and I believe
in evil in the material,
in the man.
>> GN: So you don't think
there's a demonic force?
>> KD: No, I don't, I don't.
But yet, people can activate
the energy on themselves.
That, to me, is an
absence of light
and it's not necessarily
a bad thing.
What happens is people
consulate the negative energy
as archetype within themselves.
They consulate that energy
where they start becoming
evil, we call that evil.
But for an evil force to
come to the board, no,
I know The Exorcist
talked about that.
And everyone's to say that boy--
I know it's a girl on the
movie, but the boy was--
>> GN: Can you spin your head?
>> KD: I can't but if
other people probably can.
Alice can do that.
>> GN: Oh really?
>> KD: Yeah, Alice
can spin her head.
>> GN: OK.
All right.
>> KD: So, you know,
evil in a sense of--
does it come to the board?
I guess people are pulling
in energy of that somebody
that had died that's
feeling negative?
Yes. If you want
to call that evil?
Yes. And I've had some negative
spirits come through the board
for not knowing better, not
knowing better how to handle
that or how to even
set the stage,
they don't have to
deal with that.
>> GN: I mean, you are
one of the few people
who truly thinks Ouija board
is a great tool, aren't you?
>> KD: Absolutely.
>> GN: Now, a lot of people
are as bullish about that.
>> KD: That's true.
You know, I've had some really
incredible experiences with it
and that's led me
on this odyssey
because it's always been a very
positive experience for me,
though, like I said, there's
been some negative things
that come through.
And what I do if that happens,
I just put the board away.
You're not going to
talk to me that way.
You go back in the
box, bye-bye, you know?
>> GN: Yeah, exactly.
>> KD: It's as easy as that.
Again, I don't give
my power to the board.
It's-- the power that outs
here, I'm not going to allow
that to interact with
me or engage with me.
>> GN: Talking about
engaging, of course,
we're interactive
here on Beyond Belief
so let's take a phone
call for Karen Dahlman.
>> Carmen: My name is
Carmen [assumed spelling]
and I was wondering if there was
a way a person can manifest a
ghost to appear?
>> KD: Well, not necessarily.
But let me say this, working
with the board over many,
many years, what you start
to get sometimes is an
energy source that comes
through more often,
and yes, I have seen--
I guess you can say
manifestations, physically
and also feeling-wise
kinetically, you know,
there's this clairaudience,
clairvoyance,
and clairsentience, and
all those can happen.
Absolutely, they can happen
from working with the board
but to make them
magically appear, no.
That's saying I can do something
against somebody
else's own volition.
We definitely-- there's
a-- the karmic energy.
Everybody has their own
volition, you don't cross that.
Not that I can't do
again, there's no conjuring
as we spoke about earlier.
There's no magic being practiced
here, it's just I'm talking--
I'm communicating with spirits
that are discarnate
or have died.
>> GN: Do you ever
get disappointed Karen
with the Ouija board?
It doesn't give you the
information you are looking for.
>> KD: Absolutely, I think-- I
think when I get to this point,
there's not so much
that I didn't get the
information I wanted,
it sometimes is a
patience process.
And when-- the way I use
it is it's like you start
to learn information
and you have to work
with that information.
And it's really asking you
to go back within yourself
and be reflective
of this information
and see how it integrates
within your own life.
So it's like a gestation
period of the information.
And there's always something
more I want to talk about
and they will say,
"Well, we're done."
Done for the evening because,
you know, they're tired too.
It's-- that you work
with the energy and I--
my patience isn't
always the best
so I'm practicing patience
a lot with the board.
>> GN: What trained you to start
speaking to the spirit world?
>> KD: Well, you know, George,
I've always had encounters
from a very young age of always
same things, I'll say things.
I know more what they are now.
But also, you know, my
background as a psychotherapist.
>> GN: Right.
>> KD: Learning how to--
>> GN: That's important.
>> KD: Yeah, it's very
important, learning how
to do a sacred space such as a
therapy space, a sacred space
for the board, speaking
to parts, the spirits.
One of my expertise was with
multiple personality disorder
which is now known as the
social identity disorder.
And basically, that means
people have split off,
alters within themselves.
If you will, parts of the
egos split, that's one theory.
So I always used to talk
in all those different
parts inside of people.
>> GN: Yeah.
>> KD: Just like
talking to spirits.
And to acknowledge them all
that they are all important.
>> GN: They are all symbols
>> KD: Yeah, well, yeah,
it's like The Three
Faces of Eve, exactly.
But this is a real phenomenon
that happens in people.
So dealing with each part
of that person and getting
to the part that's
the evil part,
they would call the evil alter,
is really learning
understand what's it afraid of
and why it became evil,
what kind of horrific stuff
did it suffer to become that.
Some of the spirits
on your side,
if you could honor each one
that comes through and ask,
"What is your message?"
and if they don't-- they
like come through in more
of a negative light,
they have to leave.
They come through and they want
to have a decent conversation,
then they're welcome
to stay, the same way.
I learned that from
therapy though.
>> GN: Have you ever
come across anybody
that you believe has been
possessed by something?
>> KD: Working on the board or?
>> GN: Just in general, in
a psychotherapy session.
>> KD: You know, I'm
going on a limb here
by saying this and
I would say yes.
One of the other theories with
dissociative identity disorder
or I should say people with
that type of personalities,
there's out there a theory says
that there's also some maybe
spirit possessions within.
My training as a hypnotherapist
and regression therapist,
what I've seen is that yes,
there's spirits that can attach
to people, and I can't say in
this thing negative or evil
but they're just lost.
They're lost from the light and
they see that person as a light
as they see a portal or
anybody doing energetic work,
they see a light
and they go to it.
Sometimes, they get
stuck and stay with it
and sometimes they move on.
And so in that case, possession,
you could call it that,
I'm going to call it
more than attachment.
I think it-- I see it more--
>> GN: So we'll get people
who call the radio show coast
to coast and you're an avid
listener, so you've heard some
of these people where they
truly are either very mixed up
and confused or something
is taking them over.
It's one or the other.
>> KD: Well, and there could be
a psychological disorders, too.
I mean, there can be really a
chemical imbalance in which--
>> GN: Yeah, absolutely, sure.
>> KD: -- which cause
the brain problem,
they're on medication
or, you know,
schizophrenia is a
good thing that shows--
illness that shows that as well.
And so you can lose your
variance of reality.
And that's a real thing as well.
So we have to look at way
to allow it and it's hard
to make a comment on that
unless you actually have worked
with a person in a, you
know, a therapy session
and really know what's going on.
But, you know, I say if you
do any kind of energy work,
any kind of divination
work, any kind of work
like with the Ouija board
or you're opening yourself
up to spirits, you really--
again, I don't believe
in the evil forces
but I do believe there's
negativity and you have
to really work with the
good energies in yourself.
And I'm not saying things
are black and white and bad
and good, I'm just
saying know how to balance
that within yourself, know
how to know the difference.
And when you have
something that's not right,
do not engage with it.
>> GN: Well, as you know, I
don't use the Ouija board.
>> KD: Right.
>> GN: I was going to do an
experiment on coast to coast
and decided to cancel
it and about 75 percent
of the people were very
happy I didn't do it.
There was a 25 percent group
that they were holding pi
>> GN:a parties and they
wanted this to happen.
Do you recommend
everybody use Ouija board
or are there some
people that should not?
>> KD: I don't recommend this
as everybody's path or tool
to use, absolutely not.
I think you have to
feel a calling to it,
if you want to be a
dowser or a pendulum or--
use a pendulum or tarot card.
There's a calling
to it and then you--
that becomes your item
that you might use.
I mean, I use other tools too
to speak to the other side.
But this is one tool that
I can share with others
and it's been really
powerful for me.
But no, I don't recommend
everybody to use it.
I think people that
are interested
in using it definitely
can learn to use it,
and use it in a really,
in lightening manner,
and my new book talks
about how to do just that,
to do it in that lightening
manner so it's really
about spirit development and
an evolution of yourself.
>> GN: Why are some
people afraid of it then?
>> KD: Well, I think, you know,
it had us fall from grace.
Here, you know, [inaudible]
of the day, heyday,
and almost every household
and then it [inaudible] grace
in 1973 with The Exorcist.
So the movie comes
out in '73, right?
And all of a sudden, we
hear that here is Regan,
the girl which is really
the boy in real life--
>> GN: Right.
>> KD: -- talking
to Captain Howdy
and it's scared the bejesus
out of people, right?
It scared them.
And so people-- and that was
just a less than a minute,
I think, scene, about
a minute, I guess.
>> GN: I bet sales
for the thing went
through the roof
after that movie.
>> KD: It did because now
here's children going,
it scared for eight years
and older thinking,
"Wow, mysterious.
Scary, I could do them
both at slumber parties.
This will be fun, we can
entertain ourselves."
You know, and I engaged in that
myself too 'cause that was back
in the-- I got my board
around that same--
actually the same time.
It was December '73 when that
movie came out in December '73,
I got it right before
it came out.
>> GN: I had a board.
>> KD: Did you?
>> GN: I had a board once and
I brought it into my studio
and everything went wrong.
Everything went wrong.
The audio board was screwed up,
the computers were screwed up.
I had my producer take the
board out of the studio
and everything went back
on, everything was fine.
He gave the board to a
newsman at a radio station.
Poor Daryl [assumed spelling].
Daryl took the board home.
He got fired two days
later, didn't know why.
His relationship ended abruptly
about a week later,
didn't know why.
I ran to him about
year and a half later.
I said, "Daryl, you
know, I'm sorry.
You know, took off and I
didn't have a chance to say bye
to you and how are you."
He said, "I'm fine now since
I got rid of the Ouija board."
He was convinced that
this board that I gave him
that gave us problems
destroyed his life.
And until he got rid
of it, he wasn't able
to patch his life back up again.
How do you explain that?
>> KD: Well, you know, again,
I'm not there to judge him but--
>> GN: This Ouija board-ologist.
>> KD: Well, OK, from a
Ouijalogist's perspective,
I will tell you how
to explain that.
How to explain it is is that,
first of all, number one,
don't give your power away to
something outside yourself.
And I think sometimes you--
people can have a string
of interesting luck,
I'll call it that,
because everything happens
for a reason, everything--
>> GN: Sure.
>> KD: -- is synchronistic.
I know you have talked
about that before too.
So he probably landed
in a much better job,
much better position
on the long run.
I bet you he did it, you
checked in on him, right?
So I--
>> GN: Took a while.
>> KD: That's OK.
Life takes a while.
It's about patience again.
It is a process.
Life is a process.
So, you know, I would say--
I'm not going to say it
didn't cause it or caused it,
but I'm going to say let's don't
get power outside of ourselves,
let's keep the power
to our self.
You know, it's just laminated
crest wood and there's a veneer
on top, bottom, or
something, it has a new--
>> GN: How many of
these did you bring?
>> KD: I brought six.
This is the one I've
had for 40 years.
>> GN: That's the
game one, isn't it?
>> KD: Well, this the original
and I received from Santa Claus.
>> GN: OK.
>> KD: Right.
>> GN: From bad Santa.
>> KD: Good Santa.
So, you know what?
I am going to say don't
attribute the Ouija board.
You can if you like,
but I say I wouldn't
because that's putting
power outside yourself.
Things change for
him for a reason.
>> GN: Do you have
to ask it questions?
Or does it just--
>> KD: No.
>> GN: -- start working
on its own?
>> KD: Because of where I am
with working events for so long,
I get on to my friends
and I [inaudible] come on
and they just start talking.
I would have said
I'm open up to--
I open message for
whoever is here tonight.
>> GN: Does that
ever never work?
>> KD: Yes, in fact, it doesn't.
That's a great question because
I have learned over the years,
there's planetary
atmospheric effects,
and I liken it to a telephone.
My joke is call 1800-Ouija-for
you.
Right. But it does work
like a wireless phone
and it has a frequency
and a vibration.
And what happens if that
frequency somehow interfered
with the electromagnetic
frequency
of using this communication
to the other side?
And that could be
atmospheric, could be planetary,
that could be wind,
storms, and sometimes,
I want to say atmospheric.
>> GN: Sure.
>> KD: It doesn't always work.
Huge dust storms, lightning
storms, they come through
and they tell me, "It's
not going to work."
We can-- they try to talk
and they might say two
or three words, "Can't do
it tonight" and that's it.
And I find out later why.
>> GN: Have you ever
had the Ouija board
like start running on its own?
>> KD: I've heard
people do that before.
>> GN: Or like you had the
planchette on it and all
of a sudden it's
just moving around?
>> KD: Not for me.
I have heard those stories.
I will say, I've had with it
me [inaudible] board before.
It has gotten really
excited for something to say.
It wasn't a negative thing
for me, but I've heard
where people seen
it move on its own,
but I haven't witnessed that.
>> GN: That would
be kind of spooky.
>> KD: It's a little
freakish, yeah.
>> GN: What has been the most
enlightening Ouija board story
that you've ever had?
>> KD: Oh well, the
most enlightening--
there's been quite
a few I must say.
But the one that really touches
me still to this day is the one
with my turning point on how I
was going to use Ouija board.
And it happened when
I was in college.
I was in a sorority back then
and I had a bunch of girls
that were very curious about the
board but yet very scared of it.
>> GN: Yeah.
>> KD: And they wanted to
know does thing really work.
And I was having great
success with it--
>> GN: And you knew it worked.
You knew.
>> KD: I knew it worked.
So I said, "Let's
blindfold ourselves,"
which is something
I don't do now.
It was more of a novelty thing.
>> GN: Yes.
>> KD: So the two of
us operating the board,
blindfolded ourselves,
somebody else wrote,
we couldn't see a thing in the
board and the planchette flew
around this board and most fast,
quickest way I've
ever seen it do.
And I had no idea what
it was spelling out.
But when it was done, it had
a message to one of the gals
that was sitting there
and she was in tears.
And it said basically so and so,
I always protect
people's privacy--
>> GN: Yes, I understand.
>> KD: -- so with their names.
So and so, this is
your sister, tell dad
and my other sister that I'm OK.
When that horrific car wreck
happened, I immediately left,
I didn't feel any pain,
my boyfriend's fine
too, he's here as well.
>> GN: And it was
spelling all that up?
>> KD: It spelled it
out to point blank.
The story is in my by
the way and everything,
it spelled out so
perfectly, no misspellings,
it was just beautiful.
And then basically it said, the
only pain we felt was the pain
that the family experienced--
>> GN: Sure.
>> KD: -- you know,
from the loss.
And that you still,
up to this day, hold.
And so we're here to tell
you that we love you.
We never feel any
pain, we're with you,
we'll be with you again, and
know that we're always here,
and just tell mom
and dad, I love them.
And there was not a
dry eye in that room.
>> GN: She was in shock.
>> KD: She was in shock.
She was crying.
I think I broke the
silence and thought,
"Let's just all be
quiet for a moment."
>> GN: Yeah.
>> KD: Take this in
because to me, that was--
the first use of the board,
I met a dead sister as well.
And here was a poignant moment
where I said, "This board,
there is a responsibility
I have, there's no more fun
and games, no more
blind folding."
>> GN: Yeah.
>> KD: Now, it's really--
>> GN: This is serious stuff.
>> KD: This is serious stuff.
This is very therapeutic.
If somebody can have that kind
of release that she had carried
for years of the pain
of her sister dying
and how horrific
that must have felt.
When she was-- she believed it.
>> GN: And the girl who was
writing down the letters,
she did not know about this?
>> KD: She did not know.
One person in the room knew.
But I do not know and the other
gal did not know who's writing
as well.
And we were shocked.
Nobody in the room
knew the one gal.
And-- oh, excuse me.
And the girl who's sister it
was, there's two in the room.
There's probably eight
of us there, I believe.
I think it was eight.
In fact, in my book, one
of these people that was
in that room is in my book too.
And, right, so they can
account of that story
from their experience of Ouija.
It changed her life too.
That was a big changing
point for all of us.
Some people didn't
want to talk about it.
>> GN: No.
>> KD: Because it was really
kind of scary in a way.
And then very heart warming too.
It was bittersweet.
But for me, it was
very important
to know this surreal tool.
It's not a game anymore.
And now we're going
to use it that way.
>> GN: Serious stuff.
>> KD: Oh, it's serious stuff.
>> GN: Let's take another phone
call for you, Karen, here we go.
>> Mary: Hi Karen, my name
is Mary [assumed spelling].
And I wanted to know your
best positive story involving
Ouija board.
>> GN: Well, the one you just
mentioned is kind of positive.
Is there something that might be
humorous or funny that happened?
>> KD: Yeah, you know
what-- OK, that's good.
We just talked about
the positive,
the one most turning
point story.
Yeah, sometimes if I'm
too serious, they'll say,
"Would you lighten
up and joke more."
OK. And then if I joke
too much, they tell me,
"Please be a little
more serious."
So it's like you can't
win for losing, you know?
It's like, well how
are you supposed to be.
They have, on the other side,
there's such a sense of humor,
and they do bring that
through in their messages.
And they do bring it through in
the way they will talk to us.
They have different names
for me at times depending
on what's going on in my life.
And there-- it's almost like
an older brother or something,
being very affectionate
and just friendly
and treating me that way.
So they bring a sense of humor.
And I can tell you another
real brief story if I may.
>> GN: Sure.
>> KD: That's really funny,
and also heartwarming as well.
You can use the Ouija board to
talk to living consciousness,
as I mentioned before
like higher selves.
You could talk to animals.
Animals who have passed on
and animals that are alive.
So I like talking to
my cats that are alive.
And they say the
funniest things.
And I did put a whole section
in the new book about that.
I'm not going to give it away.
But some of the things
they come up with,
I don't think I can even be
that funny and say these things.
But the animals have
a sense of humor.
And they live in the now
and so do the spirits.
They live in the now and
have a sense of humor.
They don't take things
too seriously but
yet they do take it sacred
when they communicate.
>> GN: Did they ever
spell out M-E-O-W?
>> KD: Yes, they have.
And the Ouija boards also spell
out R-O-L-A-I-D-S
before, Rolaids.
>> GN: I just love it.
It's an interesting tool.
You enjoy it.
>> KD: I do.
>> GN: You're enlightened by it.
But you don't hold
anything against those of us
who don't want to use it.
>> KD: Absolutely not.
And I welcome people to stand
on their own position with this.
And I welcome people to
stay with their own faith.
If that's what that is.
This has nothing to
do with my faith.
This just has to do with
something, a tool I use
to develop, to develop
myself in different ways.
I believe there's a message that
the Ouija board has, and that--
well, the way I use Ouija board.
And the message is this,
that our worlds are larger
when we go further
within ourselves.
As we go deeper within
ourselves,
our worlds become larger.
The way I use Ouija,
it teaches us to go
within to find the answers.
They'll give insight
and ideas and concepts.
And then say, "Please,
now take that
and let us know what you think."
So there's a whole idea
that you're supposed
to process this yourself.
>> GN: Have you ever had
someone come through the Ouija
and you have no idea
who it is or what it is?
>> KD: Yes that's happened.
It's happened more in the
beginning when I first started
because I wasn't quite clear on
how you keep the balance running
or the [inaudible], if
you will, the gatekeeper.
And I've had-- I've been in
houses that have been haunted
where they'll come through
and I wasn't prepared.
I'm prepared now, but
yes, there's spirits
that can come through.
And I will always ask them
to identify themselves.
And I always immediately
call upon my other guides
and guardians on the
other side to come
through and help as well.
That's a powerful lesson I
learned many, many years ago.
Probably 25 years ago, I
think I learned that lesson
that it's important to have
your helpers on the other side.
You can't do this alone and
you need to pull in those
that you can help you do it in a
proactive way, in a healthy way.
>> GN: Remember Karen's
first book, of course,
is called "The Spirit
of Creativity."
Her second book is
"The Spirits of Ouija."
Karen, good luck with
everything you do.
>> KD: Thank you very much.
>> GN: And you've been watching,
of course, Beyond Belief.
[ Music ]